Marketing Profile Rollout to Consultants



The marketing profiles are in the respective consultant folders.  



SME, please review and edit these with your consultants.  



CDM, please make sure consultants are studying these and using them for interview prep and looking up any content with which they are unfamiliar.  Consultant – You can make/request edits to your profiles on OneDrive.  No edit requests will be considered that are not on OneDrive.  If you download a copy that is for your personal notes and study only.



CONSULTANTS:

You can access your document in your folder only – not those of other people.

Edit ONLY online in Word online.  Track changes is turned on.  You will not see redline edits but I will.

May not alter design, layout, formatting.  This does not render accurately in MS Word Online, and it is not what you should be spending time on.

May not rewrite whole projects, or change projects.

MAY and MUST correct technical errors.

You MAY add technical skills in the summary, skills and in projects

This document has a lot of repetition – it is not a newspaper article, but rather an SEO marketing tool  DO NOT dilute keywords.

You are to use this as a study tool as well as for interview prep.  

COVER LETTER - These are also in your folder – these are very generic – please make it more personal by adding something about your character, experience, special talents or expertise.

If you have any questions, concerns, or special requests about your marketing profile, discuss it with your SME.

If you have questions or concerns about the marketing process, consult your CDM (your consultant manager).

If you would like to change some words, do it in Word Online – I will approve or reject – do not make notes to ask me – the edit is the ask.

If you have any issues with OneDrive access, tell your CDM and your CDM will make sure it is resolved.



Final Profile Review Session:

AFTER thorough study and review, you should have corrected anything or changed per SME instructions.

THEN you will have one FINAL PROFILE REVIEW session with me.  Then they are the property of marketing.