Alexander Lee 

BIG DATA | HADOOP | CLOUD ETL

Lead Hadoop Data Engineer

xanderlee0613@gmail.com

404-410-6579

			

			





Consultant 

BIG DATA | HADOOP | CLOUD ETL

Consultant@gmail.com

999-999-9999







I I I I I I I I I I

KEY STRENTHS



Programming Languages

Data Pipelines

Architecture

Engineering

Optimization

Customization

Automation

Data Analysis

Visualization

Custom Dashboards

&  Reporting

On-Prem & Cloud





Summary

5 years in Hadoop/Big Data

5 years in Information Technology

Understanding of distributed systems, HDFS architecture, internal working details of MapReduce and Spark processing frameworks.

Understanding of Hadoop big data architectures, data movement technologies, database partitioning, database optimization, and building communication channels between structured and unstructured databases.

Understanding of big data concepts and use of cloud technologies and tools.

Well-versed in installation, configuration, administration, and tuning Hadoop cluster of major Hadoop distributions (Cloudera CDH 3/4/5, Hortonworks HDP 2.3/2.4, and Amazon Web Services (AWS).

Mastered use of the different columnar file formats like RCFile, ORC and Parquet formats.

Pandas experience with operational monitoring of clusters and applications.

Setup and Config Data Lake on Bigdata platforms like Cloudera, Hortonworks, and Mapr.

Skill using Open source software like Spark, Flume, and Kafka.

Proficient performing importing/exporting actions between SQL (Oracle, MySQL) / NoSQL (Realm, MongoDB) databases and HDFS using Sqoop. 

Proficient with building tools like Apache Ant and Apache Maven.

Hands on experience migrating complex MapReduce programs into Apache Spark RDD operations like transformations and actions.

Hands-on expertise in Hadoop components - HDFS, MapReduce, Hive, Impala, Pig, Flume, Sqoop and HBase.

Implemented, set-up and worked on various Hadoop Distributions (Cloudera, Hortonworks, Amazon AWS).

Knowledgeable of deploying the application jar files into AWS instances.

Knowledgeable of Hadoop Architecture and Hadoop components (HDFS, MapReduce, JobTracker, TaskTracker, NameNode, DataNode, ResourceManager, NodeManager.

Knowledgeable of installation and configuration of Hive, Pig, Sqoop, Flume and Oozie on Hadoop clusters.



Education

Bachelor of Computer Science

University of North Carolina, Charlotte, NC

Technical Skills



PROGRAMMING

Java, C++, C#, C, Python, Scala, R



SCRIPTING

PIG/Pig Latin, HiveQL, MapReduce, XML, FTP, Ruby, Angular.js

Python, UNIX, Shell scripting, LINUX



SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT

Agile, Continuous Integration, Test-Driven Development, Unit Testing, Functional Testing, Gradle, Git, SVN, Jenkins, Travis, Jira, Puppet, Maven



DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENTS

Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, PyCharm, Visual Studio, Atom, BlueJ



AMAZON CLOUD

Amazon AWS (EMR, EC2, EC3, SQL, S3, DynamoDB, Cassandra, Redshift, Cloud Formation)



NoSQL: MongoDB, Firebase, 



SQL: SQL, MySQL, PostreSQL



HADOOP DISTRIBUTIONS

Cloudera, Hortonworks, MapR, Elastic



QUERY/SEARCH

SQL, HiveQL, Impala, Apache SOLR, Kibana, Elasticsearch



BIG DATA COMPUTE

Apache Spark, Spark Streaming, Storm



Frameworks

Hive, Pig, Ant, Yarn, Spark, Spark Streaming, Storm, Kafka



Visualization

Pentaho, Qlikview, Tableau



Formats

Parquet, Avro, Orc, JSON



Data Pipeline Tools

Apache Airflow, Apache Camel, Apache Flink/Stratosphere, Nifi



Admin Tools

Oozie, Cloudera Manager, Ambari, Zookeeper, Active Directory, PowerShell





Work Experience

March 2017 - Present

Republic National Distributing Company

Atlanta, GA







Lead Hadoop Big Data Engineer

Project involved supply chain or delivery route optimization. Here, geographic positioning and radio frequency identification sensors are used to track goods or delivery vehicles and optimize routes by integrating live traffic data, etc. HR business processes are also being improved using big data analytics.



Designed a cost-effective archival platform for storing big data using Hadoop and its related technologies. 

Worked with the Data Science team to gather requirements for various data mining projects.

Implemented Spark RDD transformations to map business analysis and apply actions on top of transformations.

Used Cassandra to work on JSON documented data.

Worked on Redshift query to load the bulk of data and execute queries.

Used HBase to store majority of data which needed to be divided based on region.

Extracted real-time using Spark RDD and process data in the form of Data Frame and save the data as Parquet format in HDFS.

Used Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS)to store majority of RDBMS data from SQL on premises.

Moved data from Data Warehouse to Amazon DynamoDB for storage.

Used the image files of an instance to create instances containing Hadoop installed and running.

Developed dynamic file configurations and environment variables to run jobs in different environments.

Worked on installing clusters, commissioning & decommissioning of data node, configuring slots, and on name node high availability, and capacity planning.

Executed tasks for upgrading clusters on the staging platform before doing it on production cluster.

Responsible for installing and configuring Apache Hadoop clusters and various tools (Hbase, Redshift, Spark, Kafka, Sqoop, Hive, Kinesis) on AWS cloud.





October 2015 - March 2017

Disney

Seattle, WA







Big Data Engineer

Theme parks are using data to understand and target their patrons. RFID tags inserted into tickets and passes can cut back on fraud and wait times at attractions.  They also help predict traffic patterns, find lost children. The data can also be used to enrich user experience by showing things like daily stats and plan each day’s activities on mobile apps.  Users can have fun sharing stats with friends on social media and even have contests.

Created custom Kafka producer to ingest the raw data into Kafka topics for consumption by custom Kafka Consumers.

Created custom Spark Streaming app to process clickstream events.

Developed workflow in Oozie to automate the tasks of loading data into HDFS and pre-processing with Pig and Hive.

Integrating Kafka with Spark streaming for high speed data processing.

Developed Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL/Streaming for faster processing of data.

Created modules for Spark streaming in data into Data Lake using Storm and Spark.

Configured Spark Streaming to receive real time data and store the stream data to HDFS

Configured scheduler to allocate resources to all the applications across the cluster.

Collected log data using custom built input adapters and Sqoop.

Performed maintenance, monitoring, deployments, and upgrades across infrastructure that supports all Hadoop clusters.

Partitioning and bucketing done for the log file data to differentiate data on a daily basis and aggregate based on business requirements.

Deployed the application jar files into AWS EC2 instances.

Developed a task execution framework on EC2 instances using SQS and DynamoDB.

Performed transformations of data using Hive and Pig to HDFS for aggregations.

Captured and transformed real-time data from Amazon Aurora into a suitable format for scalable analytics.

Created and developed the UNIX shell scripts for creating reports from Hive data.

Developed internal and external tables, and used Hive DDLs to create, alter and drop tables.

Manipulated and analyzed complex, high volume, and high dimensional data in AWS using various querying tools.

Set-up QA environment and updated configurations for implementing scripts with Pig.





May 2014 - October 2015

Raytheon

Waltham, MA







Big Data Engineer

The Raytheon Company is a major U.S. defense contractor and industrial corporation with core manufacturing concentrations in weapons and military and commercial electronics. 

Worked on AWS to create, manage EC2 instances, and Hadoop Clusters.

Deployed the Big Data Hadoop application using Talend on cloud AWS.

Using AWS Redshift for storing the data on cloud.

Performed maintenance, monitoring, deployments, and upgrades across infrastructure that supports all Hadoop clusters.

Used Zookeeper and Oozie for coordinating the cluster and scheduling workflows.

Involved in transforming data from legacy tables to HDFS, and HBase tables using Sqoop.

Transformed the logs data into data model using Pig and written UDF functions to format the logs data.

Used HBase to store majority of data which needed to be divided based on region.

Experience with Spark for processing and Storm to ingest data from varied sources.

Created HBase tables to store variable data formats of data coming from different portfolios.

Used Spark SQL and Data Frames API to load structured and semi structured data into Spark Clusters.

Collected log data using custom built input adapters and Sqoop.

Wrote shell scripts for exporting log files to Hadoop cluster through automated processes.

Successfully loaded files to HDFS from SQL using Spark.

Used Spark-SQL and Hive Query Language (HQL) for getting customer insights

Optimized Hive analytics SQL queries, created tables/views, wrote custom UDFs and Hive-based exception processing.

Involved in loading data from UNIX file system to HDFS.

Wrote shell scripts for automating the process of data loading.

Use of Spark Data Frame and Spark SQL API extensively for processing.

Designed and implemented test environment on AWS.

Imported real-time logs to HDFS using Kafka.

Worked on various file formats AVRO, ORC, Text, CSV, and Parquet using Snappy compression.

Created both internal and external tables in Hive and developed Pig scripts to preprocess the data for analysis.

Designed appropriate partitioning/bucketing schema to allow faster data retrieval during analysis using Spark.





January 2013 - May 2014

Nucor Corporation

Charlotte, NC





Big Data Administrator

Nucor Corporation is a producer of steel and related products headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. It is the largest steel producer in the United States of America and is the largest "mini-mill" steelmaker.  



Partitioning and bucketing done for the log file data to differentiate data on a daily basis and aggregate based on business requirements.

Worked directly with the Big Data Architecture Team which created the foundation of this Enterprise Analytics initiative in a Hadoop-based Data Lake



Apache Open source version with Mesos job scheduler; developed, designed tested Spark SQL clients with Scala, PySpark and Java clients

Performed aggregations on large sets of log data using SparkSQL.

Collected log data using custom built input adapters and Sqoop.

Wrote Oozie configuration scripts for exporting log files to Hadoop cluster through automated processes. 

Administered Hadoop cluster(CDM) and reviewed log files of all daemons.

Involved in scheduling Oozie workflow engine to run multiple Hive, Sqoop and Pig jobs.

Implemented workflows using Apache Oozie framework to automate tasks.

Used Zookeeper for various types of centralized configurations, GIT for version control, and Maven as a build tool for deploying the code.

Translated legacy MapReduce jobs to Spark to improve data ingestion.

Imported data from disparate sources into Spark RDD for processing.

Analyzed large sets of structures, semi-structured and unstructured data by running Hive queries and Pig scripts.

Support for the clusters, topics on the Kafka manager.

Involved in developing Pig Scripts for change data capture and delta record processing between newly arrived data and already existing data in HDFS.

Consumed data from Kafka queue using Storm.

Used Spark SQL to perform transformations and actions on data residing in Hive.

Wrote MapReduce code to process and parse data from various sources and store parsed data into HBase and Hive using HBase-Hive Integration.

Help to implement different components on the cloud for the Kafka application messaging.

Partitioning and bucketing log file data to differentiate and aggregate.

Used Spark Streaming to divide streaming data into batches as an input to Spark engine for batch processing.

Worked on in setting up Kafka and Storm clusters in Amazon (AWS).

Loading and transforming large sets of structured and semi structured data from HDFS through Sqoop, and placed in HDFS for further processing.

Developed Kafka standalone POC's with the Confluent Schema Registry, Rest Proxy, Kafka Connectors for Redshift and HDFS(Hadoop).



Education

BACHELORS IN COMPUTER SCIENCES

University of North Carolina, Charlotte, NC